now the British government has
reportedly received advice from its own
lawyers that Israel has breached
International humanitarian law in Gaza
but it has failed to disclose this
publicly for more on this let's speak to
Jeffrey nice who's a human rights lawyer
who prosecuted former Serbian leader
Slobodan milosovic and he joining us
from Canterbury thank you very much for
your time so the lawyers of the British
government themselves according to this
report have told it that Israel is
breaking international law but they
haven't make this public are you
surprised at all uh first of all by by
this
Revelation first of all I'm not full
surprised that the government would seek
advice from its lawyers it would have to
do so as soon as it became public that
many commentators more important many
people in Authority in the United
Nations were concerned about Israel's
military uh attack not being
proportionate proportionality is what's
required for an attack to be lawful so
they were bound to seek legal advice
given the of opinion not the fact that
they've ignored it would seem this
advice is that surprising is that
unusual can can you repeat the question
please the fact that they received this
advice from their own lawyers but it
would seem have chosen to ignore it is
that unusual is that
surprising we don't know that yet we
have I have not seen the advice this is
a report which refers to an an an
account of the advice let us assume
first of all there would be an advice
would the advice deal with the question
of proportionality and lawfulness of the
attack yes it would is there is the
advice likely to have found that there
could be or was lack of proportionality
and therefore criminality it certainly
could have reached that conclusion given
the majority opinion among those not me
but people close to the war and with
real Authority from the United Nations
and elsewhere would be unsurprising if
the advice gave that conclusion if the
advice did did give that conclusion and
if the government acted without regard
to that advice that would be very
concerning not just to those who are
lawyers acting in an international
environment but it' be very concerning
to the public The public's interest in
this war has been very substantially
aroused emot not that emotions are very
valuable but emotions are pretty high
and the public is in would like to know
and I would say is entitled to know what
the advice said this way or that way
right so concerning you say what about
the legal implications of this by
continuing to sell arms to Israel is the
British government complicit in in the
crimes that are being committed and and
you know if if the ca if it is the case
could there also be then a case against
against the British government at an
international
Court yeah if any government has
received clear advice What's Happening
by the combatant party is unlawful then
in providing weapons for an unlawful
activity it runs the risk of being found
to be
complicit might it get round that risk
by saying oh well you can have these
weapons but you can only use them in
certain
circumstances difficult and we
understand from the latest alleged
provision of Arms by America it's not
using that get out clause so yes there
is a real risk that a government
providing arms to a party engaged in
unlawful Warfare could find itself
complicit that's not very surprising if
you know your neighbor is about to
commit a crime and wants a gun and you
hand them the gun well of course you're
guilty with the neighbor you can't get
out of it so it's a it's a big problem
for governments right and what and I
think yeah go on go on please finish
your thought and then I'll ask you the
next question well I think what's going
to be interesting is to see whether
these sorts of concerns are going to be
resolved by publishing the advice
received by governments not just our
government America and all other
governments involved in provision of
arms and who knows they are the advice
may may solve the problem but if it
doesn't solve the problem or if the
advice is not published what's going to
be the next step when as one is bound to
hope the whole matter is
eventually uh laid before an
international Court of some kind to deal
with criminality of both sides Hamas and
uh the Israeli Defense Force which is
what the public at large would want well
you may find that governments the big
powerful governments will try and stop
those legal proceedings there's a lot to
play for here right and presumably Mr
Nice if British lawyers are making these
conclusions other law ERS in other
countries must also have had the the
same advice probably to their
governments you talked about possible
legal proceedings at the international
level what about at the local at the
national level could they be cases at
the national level against the UK for
example well there might be I suppose um
but that's a bit of a stretch because
you've got to have an appropriate
jurisdiction that can deal with the
government which is not that easy
whereas the international court for
example can bring in individuals who are
responsible and maybe the international
court of justice can look if if genocide
is alleged and shown in any way at
governments but I think um what what's
really interesting and important over
all is that all
countries developed countries will have
obtained advice from their
lawyers about the legality of what's
Happening in Israel if their governments
are involved on either side in the
provision of arms to to one side or the
other it's pretty clear that hamas's use
of arms has been unlawful because
they've been firing unarmed rockets at
civilian areas something very difficult
to justify and they've also been engaged
in the horrifying along with maybe other
groups yes no it's let me just finish on
the 7th of October so governments on
either side will will have who are
possibly involved will have obtained
legal advice and in each in all cases we
the public you and I the world citizen
need to know what the advice has been
Jeffrey nice thank you very much for
talking to us as always very good to get
your Insight Jeffrey nice is a human
rights lawyer joining us there from
Canterbury